Proxy-Connection: close
The Connection and Proxy-Connection headers are used to specify whether a connection
will be kept alive after the first request/response exchange is completed. It is perfectly acceptable
(and suggested) to have your proxy open a new connection for each request. Specifying close as
the value of these headers alerts web servers that your proxy intends to close connections after the
firstrequest/responseexchange.
For your convenience, the values of the described User-Agent header is provided to you as a string
constantinproxy.c.
Finally, if a browser sends any additional request headers as part of an HTTP request, your proxy should
forwardthemunchanged.
4.3 Portnumbers
Therearetwosignificantclassesofportnumbersforthislab: HTTPrequestportsandyourproxy’slistening
port.
TheHTTPrequestportisanoptionalfieldintheURLofanHTTPrequest. Thatis,theURLmaybeofthe
form, http://www.cmu.edu:8080/hub/index.html, in which case your proxy should connect
to the host www.cmu.edu on port 8080 instead of the default HTTP port, which is port 80. Your proxy
mustproperlyfunctionwhetherornottheportnumberisincludedintheURL.
The listening port is the port on which your proxy should listen for incoming connections. Your proxy
shouldacceptacommandlineargumentspecifyingthelisteningportnumberforyourproxy. Forexample,
withthefollowingcommand,yourproxyshouldlistenforconnectionsonport15213:
linux> ./proxy 15213
You may select any non-privileged listening port (greater than 1,024 and less than 65,536) as long as it
is not used by other processes. Since each proxy must use a unique listening port and many people will
simultaneously be working on each machine, the script port-for-user.pl is provided to help you
pickyourownpersonalportnumber. UseittogenerateportnumberbasedonyouruserID:
linux> ./port-for-user.pl droh
droh: 45806
The port, p, returned by port-for-user.pl is always an even number. So if you need an additional
portnumber,sayfortheTiny server,youcansafelyuseportspandp+1.
Pleasedon’tpickyourownrandomport. Ifyoudo,youruntheriskofinterferingwithanotheruser.
4