bytes of the old block and the last 4 bytes are uninitialized. Similarly, if the old block is 8 bytes
and the new block is 4 bytes, then the contents of the new block are identical to the ﬁrst 4 bytes
of the old block.
These semantics match the the semantics of the corresponding libcmalloc ,realloc, andfree rou-
tines. Typeman malloc to the shell for complete documentation.
5 Heap Consistency Checker
Dynamic memory allocators are notoriously tricky beasts to program correctly and efﬁciently. They are
difﬁcult to program correctly because they involve a lot of u ntyped pointer manipulation. You will ﬁnd it
very helpful to write a heap checker that scans the heap and checks it for consistency.
Some examples of what a heap checker might check are:
• Is every block in the free list marked as free?
• Are there any contiguous free blocks that somehow escaped coalescing?
• Is every free block actually in the free list?
• Do the pointers in the free list point to valid free blocks?
• Do any allocated blocks overlap?
• Do the pointers in a heap block point to valid heap addresses?
Your heap checker will consist of the functionint mm
check(void) inmm.c. It will check any invari-
ants or consistency conditions you consider prudent. It ret urns a nonzero value if and only if your heap is
consistent. You are not limited to the listed suggestions no r are you required to check all of them. You are
encouraged to print out error messages whenmm check fails.
This consistency checker is for your own debugging during de velopment. When you submit mm.c, make
sure to remove any calls to mm check as they will slow down your throughput. Style points will be g iven
for yourmm check function. Make sure to put in comments and document what you are checking.
6 Support Routines
The memlib.c package simulates the memory system for your dy namic memory allocator. You can invoke
the following functions inmemlib.c:
• void *mem
sbrk(int incr): Expands the heap by incr bytes, where incr is a positive
non-zero integer and returns a generic pointer to the ﬁrst by te of the newly allocated heap area. The
semantics are identical to the Unix sbrk function, except that mem sbrk accepts only a positive
non-zero integer argument.
3