• For consistency with thelibcmalloc package, which returns blocks aligned on 8-byte boundaries,
your allocator must always return pointers that are aligned to 8-byte boundaries. The driver will
enforce this requirement for you.
9 Evaluation
You will receive zero points if you break any of the rules or your code is buggy and crashes t he driver.
Otherwise, your grade will be calculated as follows:
• Correctness (20 points). You will receive full points if your solution passes the corr ectness tests
performed by the driver program. You will receive partial credit for each correct trace.
• Performance (35 points). Two performance metrics will be used to evaluate your solution:
– Space utilization: The peak ratio between the aggregate amount of memory used b y the driver
(i.e., allocated via mm
malloc or mm realloc but not yet freed via mm free) and the size
of the heap used by your allocator. The optimal ratio equals to 1. You should ﬁnd good policies
to minimize fragmentation in order to make this ratio as close as possible to the optimal.
– Throughput: The average number of operations completed per second.
The driver program summarizes the performance of your allocator by computing aperformance index,
P , which is a weighted sum of the space utilization and throughput
P = wU + (1 − w) min
(
1, T
Tlibc
)
where U is your space utilization, T is your throughput, and Tlibc is the estimated throughput oflibc
malloc on your system on the default traces. 1 The performance index favors space utilization over
throughput, with a default of w = 0.6.
Observing that both memory and CPU cycles are expensive system resources, we adopt this formula to
encourage balanced optimization of both memory utilization and throughput. Ideally, the performance
index will reach P = w + (1 − w) = 1 or 100%. Since each metric will contribute at most w and
1 − w to the performance index, respectively, you should not go to extremes to optimize either the
memory utilization or the throughput only. To receive a good score, you must achieve a balance
between utilization and throughput.
• Style (10 points).
– Your code should be decomposed into functions and use as few global variables as possible.
– Your code should begin with a header comment that describes t he structure of your free and
allocated blocks, the organization of the free list, and how your allocator manipulates the free
list. each function should be preceeded by a header comment t hat describes what the function
does.
1The value for Tlibc is a constant in the driver (600 Kops/s) that your instructor established when they conﬁgured the program.
5